# OpenGL Project: Designing a 3D Scene Reflection

## _Q: How did you approach designing the software? In addition: what new design skills has your work on the project helped you to craft, what design process did you follow for your project work, and how could tactics from your design approach be applied in future work?_ ##

### A: OpenGL was a new venture for me, and I enjoyed going through the open source material to learn and implement the libraries functions and operations into this final project. The process followed a simple procedure of first creating the objects by implementing a bunch of different shapes, until the culminated shapes resembled real life objects. For example, toruses and boxes being manipulated to resemble the glasses that would sit atop a book. From there, adding textures and shaders to each of the objects helped them change from shapes with simple colors to fully detailed objects that further enhanced the realism of the scene. Finally, enhancing and adapting the lighitng of the scene brought the final touches to the project and fully fleshed out the 3D graphics.
### My tactic of learning & applying the invidual functions of the program into small and efficient sprints helped greatly in both the overall development, and in catching bugs/errors early rather than later. Continuous testing and development established an efficient workflow in my development process, and it's something I'll continue to do in my future work.

## _Q: How did you approach developing the program? In addition: what new development strategies did you use while working on your 3D scene, how did iteration factor into your development, and how has your approach to developing code evolved throughout the milestones, which led you to the project’s completion?_ ##

### A: A major strategy I further enhanced while developing the program was my use of functions & commenting in my code. Not only did functions help with the iteration (rendering of each object in the scene) but they gave a greater sense of organization and made the completion of each sprint (milestone) in the program much more efficient. Additionally, the importance of comments in code was further ingrained in my work through developing this project. While I previously knew comments were implemented to help other developers/programmers to understand my work, I gained new understanding that commenting helped myself as well. I was able to easily pick up where I previously had left off at each milestone, helped in my refactoring/debugging pursuits, and also helped me organize my thoughts/layout to easily jump to specific sections if I needed to edit/change a portion of this high linecount code. These development strategies are something I'll implement in the future, and greatly helped me from start to completion of this project.

## _Q: How can computer science help you in reaching your goals? In addition: how do computational graphics and visualizations give you new knowledge and skills that can be applied in your future professional/educational pathways?_ ##

### A: Through this project I gained a greater sense of the power of computer science, and by extension software development experiences, has on achieving goals. The main purpose was to assist Triangle & Cube Studios with creating a simple 3D computer graphic scene that was made in reference to a 2D image. Through computer science and the concepts of OpenGL, I was able to work through the problem of creating a 3D scene digitally, and deliver a product that met the speicfications and exceeded expectations. From what I learned in this project, and as a whole the knowledge and skills of computational graphics & visualizations, I could apply to different goals in different fields like Healthcare vizuals, entertainment/game software environment/object rendering, or even construction & industrial building recreation. This amazing feature of computational graphics allows for a great enhancement to other work fields, and helps both teams and individuals to further enhance their own projects & goals. Through what I've leanred and implemnted here, I can carry into the future and apply to a mariad of goals/projects.
